Media query range syntax post (#3025)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/media-query-range-syntax/index.md

---
# Required
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'
title: New syntax for range media queries in Chrome 104
description: >
  Find out how this new syntax can streamline media queries.
subhead: >
  Find out how this new syntax can streamline media queries.

> date: 2022-06-15

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2022-06-16
```

```css
@media (min-width: 400px) {
  // Styles for viewports with a width of 400 pixels or greater.
}
```

The new syntax allows for the use of a comparison operator:

```css
@media (width >= 400px) {
  // Styles for viewports with a width of 400 pixels or greater.
}
```

Testing for a maximum width:

```css
@media (max-width: 30em) {
  // Styles for viewports with a width of 30em or greater.
}
```

And, the version using the level 4 syntax:

```css
@media (width <= 30em) {
  // Styles for viewports with a width of 30em or greater.
}
```

This syntax has the potential to streamline queries, in particular when testing between two widths. In the following example, the media query tests for a viewport with a minimum width of 400px, and a maximum width of 600px.

```css
@media (min-width: 400px) and (max-width: 600px) {
  // Styles for viewports between 400px and 600px.
}
```

This can be rewritten in the new syntax as:

```css
@media (400px <= width <= 600px )  {
  // Styles for viewports between 400px and 600px.
}
```

The feature that you are testing, in this case `width`, goes between the two values.

> In addition to making media queries less verbose, the new syntax has the advantage of accuracy. The `min-` and `max-` queries are inclusive of the value being tested for, for example `min-width: 400px` tests for a width of 400px or greater. The new syntax allows you to be more explicit about what you mean and avoid the potential of clashing queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to making media queries less verbose, the new syntax has the advantage of accuracy. The `min-` and `max-` queries are inclusive of the specified values, for example `min-width: 400px` tests for a width of 400px or greater. The new syntax allows you to be more explicit about what you mean and avoid the potential of clashing queries.
```
